Unit 8 - NeRF chapter (#124)
johko/computer-vision-course: chapters/en/Unit 8 - 3D Vision, Scene Rendering and Reconstruction/nerf.mdx

$t_n$ and $t_f$ stand for the near and far bounds of the ray, respectively. 
$T(t)$ denotes the accumulated transmittance along ray $\mathbf{r}(t)$ from $t_n$ to $t$.

After discretization, the equation above can be computed as the following sum:

$$\boldsymbol{\hat{C}}(\mathbf{r})=\sum_{i=1}^{N}T_i (1-\exp(-\sigma_i \delta_i)) \mathbf{c}_i\,, \textrm{ where }T_i=\exp \bigg(-\sum_{j=1}^{i-1} \sigma_j \delta_j \bigg)$$

Below, you can see a schematic visualisation of a discretized camera ray in order to get a better sense of the variables from above:

![ray_image](https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-vision/course-assets/blob/main/nerf_ray_visualisation.png)

**Loss formulation**

As the discretized volumetric rendeing equation is fully differentiable, the weights of the underlying neural network can then be trained using a reconstruction loss on the rendered pixels. 
Many NeRF approaches use a pixel-wise error term that can be written as follows:

$$\mathcal{L}_{\rm recon}(\boldsymbol{\hat{C}},\boldsymbol{C^*}) = \left\|\boldsymbol{\hat{C}}-\boldsymbol{C^*}\right\|^2$$

> ,where $\boldsymbol{\hat{C}}$ is the colour rendered pixel colour and $\boldsymbol{C}^*$ is the ground truth pixel colour.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
,where $\boldsymbol{\hat{C}}$ is the rendered pixel colour and $\boldsymbol{C}^*$ is the ground truth pixel colour.
```

**Additional remarks**

It is very hard to describe the whole NeRF pipeline in detail within a single chapter. 

> The explanations above are important to understand the basic cocepts and similar if not identical in every NeRF model. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The explanations above are important to understand the basic concepts and similar if not identical in every NeRF model. 
```

    # Show the original grid
    print("Input Values:")
    media.show_images([x_channel, y_channel], cmap="plasma", border=True)
    # Show the encoded grid
    print("Encoded Values:")
    num_channels_to_visualize = min(8, encoded_images.shape[-1])  # Visualize up to 8 channels
    encoded_images_to_show = encoded_images.view(resolution, resolution, -1).permute(2, 0, 1)[:num_channels_to_visualize]
    media.show_images(encoded_images_to_show, vmin=-1, vmax=1, cmap="plasma", border=True)

# Parameters similar to your NeRFEncoding example
num_frequencies = 4
min_freq_exp = 0
max_freq_exp = 6
resolution = 128

# Generate a 2D grid of points in the range [0, 1]
x_samples = torch.linspace(0, 1, resolution)
y_samples = torch.linspace(0, 1, resolution)
grid = torch.stack(torch.meshgrid(x_samples, y_samples), dim=-1) # [resolution, resolution, 2]

# Apply positional encoding
encoded_grid = positional_encoding(grid, num_frequencies, min_freq_exp, max_freq_exp)

# Visualize result
visualize_grid(grid, encoded_grid, resolution)
```

The output should look something like the image below:

![encoding](https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-vision/course-assets/blob/main/nerf_encodings.png)

> The second trick worth mentioning is that most approaches use smart approaches to sample points in space. 

Reviewer: My suggestion to not double "approach"
```suggestion
The second trick worth mentioning is that most methods use smart approaches to sample points in space. 
```

# Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs)

Neural Radiance Fields are a way of storing a 3D scene within a neural network. This way of storing and representing a scene is often called an implicit representation, since the scene parameters are fully represented by the underlying Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP). 
(As compared to an explicit representation that stores scene parameters like colour or density explicitly in voxel grids.) 
This novel way of representing a scene showed very impressive results in the task of [novel view synthesis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/View_synthesis), the task of interpolating novel views from camera perspectives that are not in the training set. 

> Furthermore it allows us to store large scenes with a smaller memory footprint than explicit reresentation, since we merely need to store the weights of our neural network compared to voxel grids, that increase in memory size by a cubic term.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Furthermore, it allows us to store large scenes with a smaller memory footprint than explicit representation, since we merely need to store the weights of our neural network compared to voxel grids, which increase in memory size by a cubic term.
```

## Short History 📖
The field of NeRFs is relatively young with the first publication by [Mildenhall et al.](https://www.matthewtancik.com/nerf) appearing in 2020. 
Since then, a vast number of papers have been published and fast advancements have been made. 

> Since 2020, more than 620 preprints and publications have been released with more than 250 source codes on GitHub. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Since 2020, more than 620 preprints and publications have been released, with more than 250 repositories on GitHub. 
```

> *(as of Dec 2023, statistics from [paperswithcode.com](https://paperswithcode.com/method/nerf))*

Reviewer 2: This can continue from previous line

Author: Thanks for the review! Just to clarify, do you mean that the subsection (Short History) Should start only after this paragraph?

Author: Ok. Fixed it:)

> Since the first formulation of NeRFs requires long training times (up to days on beefy GPUs) there have been a lot of advancements towards fatser training and inference. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since the first formulation of NeRFs requires long training times (up to days on beefy GPUs), there have been a lot of advancements towards faster training and inference. 
```

> An important leap would be NVIDIA's [Instant-ngp](https://nvlabs.github.io/instant-ngp/), that introduces innovative techniques that efficiently encode input data. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An important leap would be NVIDIA's [Instant-ngp](https://nvlabs.github.io/instant-ngp/), which introduces innovative techniques that efficiently encode input data. 
```

Reviewer 3: It would be nice to clarify here what the "Instant-ngp" is - a training approach? a library? new architectures? etc. 
It would be great to have a basic idea before leaving the page to learn more via the link.

> An important leap would be NVIDIA's [Instant-ngp](https://nvlabs.github.io/instant-ngp/), that introduces innovative techniques that efficiently encode input data. 

Reviewer 3: Confused by the choice of "would be".  Is it something that is not available yet?

Author: it is already available, changed it to "was":)

> This allowed the authors to shrink the MLP down significantly, making it faster to train and query while performing on par quality wise with then state-of-the-art methods. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This allowed the authors to shrink the MLP down significantly, making it faster to train and query while performing on par quality-wise with the state-of-the-art methods back then. 
```

> [Mipnerf-360](https://jonbarron.info/mipnerf360/) is also worth mentioning since it intoduced a scene contraction that allows us to represent scenes that are unbounded in all directions, which is important for real world applications. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Mipnerf-360](https://jonbarron.info/mipnerf360/) is also worth mentioning since it introduced a scene contraction that allows us to represent scenes that are unbounded in all directions, which is important for real-world applications. 
```

> [Mipnerf-360](https://jonbarron.info/mipnerf360/) is also worth mentioning since it intoduced a scene contraction that allows us to represent scenes that are unbounded in all directions, which is important for real world applications. 

Reviewer 3: Same comment - please clarify in a few words what Mipnerf-360 is. At the very basic level.

> [Zip-NeRF](https://jonbarron.info/zipnerf/) which combines recent advancements like the encoding from [Instant-ngp](https://nvlabs.github.io/instant-ngp/) and the scene contraction from [Mipnerf-360](https://jonbarron.info/mipnerf360/) to handle real world situation whilst decreasing training times to under an hour. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Zip-NeRF](https://jonbarron.info/zipnerf/) which combines recent advancements like the encoding from [Instant-ngp](https://nvlabs.github.io/instant-ngp/) and the scene contraction from [Mipnerf-360](https://jonbarron.info/mipnerf360/) to handle real-world situation whilst decreasing training times to under an hour. 
```

*(this is still measured on beefy GPUs to be fair)*

> Since the field of NeRFs is rapidly evolving, I am adding a section **Future Direction** on the bottom where I will tease the latest reseaerch and the possible future direction of NeRFs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since the field of NeRFs is rapidly evolving, we added a section **Future Direction** at the end where I will tease the latest research and the possible future direction of NeRFs.
```

> Since the field of NeRFs is rapidly evolving, I am adding a section **Future Direction** on the bottom where I will tease the latest reseaerch and the possible future direction of NeRFs.

Reviewer 3: Is this a TODO item for you, or is it part of the section? I'm slightly confused :)

Author: Sorry it was unclear. I changed the wording like merve suggested so It should be clear now. Also added a link to the last subsection.

But now enough history, let's dive into the intrinsics of NeRFs! 🚀🚀

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
